Add custom cert docs (#3437)
quiltdata/quilt: docs/api-reference/self-signed-certificates.md

<!--pytest-codeblocks:skipfile-->
<!-- markdownlint-disable-next-line first-line-h1 -->
When using the `quilt3` API or CLI with a client-to-site (remote
access) VPN you may need to use a self-signed certificate to
securely connect. This requires adding the certificate to your
Python environment.

## Mac OS X

1. Open Keychain Access.
2. Select System Keychains > System Roots.
3. Select the «Certificates» tab.

> 4. Select a root certificate (e.g. AAA Certificate Services).

Reviewer: Should probably make this consistent with the Windows instructions: start with open a browser, go to a website, get the certificate issuer, etc. - and then in this step, look for the certificate from earlier.

1. Open Keychain Access and select System Keychains > System Roots.
1. Click the Certificates tab.
1. Find the certificate that you noted above.
1. Click File > Export Items... to export the root certificate.
1. Convert the exported certificate in Terminal as follows:
    ```sh
    openssl x509 -inform der -in /path/to/your/certificate.cer -out /path/to/converted/certificate.crt
    ```
1. Export the following variable (e.g. `~/.bashrc` or `~/.zshrc`):
    ```ssh
    export REQUESTS_CA_BUNDLE=/path/to/converted/certificate.crt
    ```

## Linux

1. Export the single-file version of CA certificates variable (e.g.
`~/.bashrc` or `~/.zshrc`):
    ```sh
    export REQUESTS_CA_BUNDLE=/etc/pki/tls/certs/ca-bundle.crt
    ```

> The single-file version of CA certificates may be located elsewhere
in different Linux distributions. For example, in Ubuntu Linux
distributions the file is located at `/etc/ssh/certs/ca-certificates.crt`.

## Windows

1. Direct your browser to an HTTPS website that uses a custom certificate.
1. Click the lock icon in the address bar.
1. Click View certificates and copy the certificate name to a safe place.

> 1. Open the Command Prompt («Win + R») and type `certmgr`. This
> opens the Windows Certificate Manager for the current user.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Open the Command Prompt («Win + R») and type `certmgr` to open
your Windows Certificate Manager.
```

1. Find the certificate that you noted above.

   ![MITM certificate](../imgs/certmgr-windows.png)

1. Export the certificate in Base-64 encoded X.509 (.CER) to your
file system (`Path\To\mycert.cer`).
1. Export the following variable:
    ```sh

>     > set REQUESTS_CA_BUNDLE=Path\To\mycert.cer

Reviewer 2: Confusing to show shell prompt and it makes copy-paste harder.
```suggestion
    set REQUESTS_CA_BUNDLE=Path\To\mycert.cer
```

    ```

> > This only affects the current shell session.

Reviewer 2: Eliminate or provide a solution as we do with Linux re: startup files.

Reviewer: Here are some instructions:
https://www.computerhope.com/issues/ch000549.htm

Except that we'll want to create a new var instead of editing an existing one.

In any case, I wouldn't go into much more detail than "here's how to open the editor UI".

Author: I found out how to permanently define the cert for an miniconda distro of Python and added that.

## Verification

> Requesting access to a registry with the `quilt3` API or CLI should
> no longer fail with SSL errors.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`quilt3` should no longer fail with SSL errors related to the custom certificate.
```

> ## Further information

Reviewer 2: Do we have a standard title for this tail section?
```suggestion
## Resources
```

Author: We've using `References` [elsewhere](https://docs.quiltdata.com/advanced/private-endpoint-access)

> <!--pytest-codeblocks:skipfile-->

Reviewer 2: Please update file name to "custom-ssl-certificates.md" or similar.

    ```

> The single-file version of your CA certificate may be found in
different locations depending upon your operating system.

## Windows

1. Direct your browser to an HTTPS website that uses a custom certificate.
1. Click the lock icon in the address bar.
1. Click View certificates and copy the certificate name to a safe place.
1. Open the Command Prompt («Win + R») and type `certmgr` to open
your Windows Certificate Manager.
1. Find the certificate that you noted above.

   ![MITM certificate](../imgs/certmgr-windows.png)

1. Export the certificate in Base-64 encoded X.509 (.CER) to your
file system (`\Path\To\mycert.cer`).
1. Convert the exported certificate in the Command Prompt as follows
(assumes OpenSSL is installed):
    - Certificate in `der` encoding:
    ```sh
    openssl x509 -inform der -in \Path\To/mycert.cer -out \Path\To\Converted/mycert.crt
    ```
    - Certificate in `pem` encoding (no conversion necessary):
    ```sh
    openssl x509 -in \Path\To/mycert.cer -out \Path\To\Converted/mycert.crt
    ```
1. Export the following variable, which affects the current shell session:
    ```sh
    set REQUESTS_CA_BUNDLE=Path\To\mycert.cer
    ```

> 1. If using an Anaconda Python distribution, you may wish to permanently define

Reviewer 2: I think this is TMI that makes docs harder and more time-consuming to maintain. Not our job to go into shell specifics or persistence.

Author: This is providing a permanent solution for Windows as requested here: https://github.com/quiltdata/quilt/pull/3437#discussion_r1179724732

Reviewer 2: But it requires Anaconda which is out of scope and not present on all Windows machines. It creates more questions than it answers. Why not just use the exact same language for Windows as we do elsewhere? "Export the following variable. You may wish to do this in a startup file for repeatability."

Author: Okay - fixed.

<!--pytest-codeblocks:skipfile-->
<!-- markdownlint-disable-next-line first-line-h1 -->

> When using the `quilt3` API or CLI with a client-to-site (remote
> access) VPN you may need to use a self-signed certificate to
> securely connect. This requires adding the certificate to your
> Python environment.

Reviewer 2: Private and self-signed are not the same thing.
```suggestion
When using the `quilt3` API or CLI with a client-to-site
VPN you may need to trust a custom certificate.
```

## Mac OS X

> 1. Open a new browser window and navigate to any HTTPS website.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Open a browser tab to any HTTPS website that uses the custom certificate
```

> 2. Click the «lock icon» in the browser navigation/address bar.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Click the lock icon in the address bar.
```

> 3. Click «View certificates» and record the certificate name value

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. Click View certificates and copy the certificate name to a safe place.
```

Reviewer: "Click View certificates" without quotes kind of looks weird?

That said, we don't want to be too specific here since these are instructions for "any browser on OS X" - we're just hoping that any reasonable browser has such a feature.

> (e.g. `mycert`).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> 4. Open Keychain Access.
> 5. Select System Keychains > System Roots.

Reviewer 2: If you use "1." for every item you don't have to renumber on edit. These bullets can be consolidated in any case.
```suggestion
1. Open Keychain Access and select System Keychains > System Roots
```

> 6. Select the «Certificates» tab.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
6. Open the Certificates tab.
```

> 7. Search all certificates for a certificate name value that equals
> the value recorded (`mycert` in the example).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
7. Find the certificate that you noted above
```

> 8. Click «File», select "Export Items...", export the root certificate

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
8. Click File > Export Items... to export the root certificate.
```

> to your localhost.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> 9. In the Terminal, convert the exported certificate with

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
9. Convert the exported certificate in Terminal as follows:
```

> [OpenSSL](https://www.openssl.org/):

Reviewer 2: If their Mac doesn't have OpenSSL installing it is beyond the scope of this tutorial.
```suggestion
```

    ```sh
    openssl x509 -inform der -in /path/to/your/certificate.cer -out /path/to/converted/certificate.crt
    ```

> 10. In the Terminal, open your shell profile (e.g. `~/.bashrc` or
> `~/.zshrc`).
> 11. Add the certificate to your shell environment:
>     ```ssh
>     export REQUESTS_CA_BUNDLE=/path/to/converted/certificate.crt`
>     ```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
10. Export the following variable (e.g. in `~/.zshrc`):
    ```sh
    export REQUESTS_CA_BUNDLE=/path/to/converted/certificate.crt`
    ```
```

Author: Fixed the stray `. Leaving bashrc and zshrc in place (but in simplified format per Aneesh)

> 12. Save the change.
> 13. Exit your shell or Terminal app, then reopen.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer 2: Please update the Linux section for similar concision and style consistency
